We were just realizing that actually
there are more things the user
sees that can be changed than just the
text content of our elements on the page.
Actually, even the existence or not of
the element, that is the div or the input
is also something that is a result or
should be a result of underlying data.
That we are therefore able to funnel
pipe through our data to view converter
function, such that the only place that
can affect the view what the user sees of
the content in the app is through the data
to view converter, such that the handlers,
that handle the user's action will
only be able to affect that data.
And yet
this handler we had it affect the view.
Maybe we thought it was gonna
be okay because it was a div but
actually it turns out even the division,
even though box on the page is
something that we can change or
is content that the user can change and
therefore we should have it mirroring,
matching, mapping from some underlying
state or data in JavaScript such
as we have a source of truth
our JavaScript, state, or data.
And that led us to, add to our
data view function, two new lines.
Two important new lines here,
our creation of our element, our div and
our input, not just our filling out
of its content and then line 8 and
9, but also our creation of
our element in line 4 and 5.
And remove the creation of
the element from our HTML code.
So now our data to view function is
also creating the part of our view,
the buckets, the containers, the input and
div, into which we're gonna put our text,
our value, our text content setters,
will do that.
All within data to view and
all conditional on underlying state
tracked in JavaScript that gives us
a single source of truth, posh word for
way of saying a single place in which
the cause of what you see is determined.
And that cause is our post data.
Even if in line 4 we see our Jess
input is gonna always display
independent of whether post is,
I don't know, an empty string or
the text will or something else, fine.
It displays in all possible
states of the value of post.
That's okay.
It is still dependent definitionally
on post because it is being created
through our data to view.
And if we did wanna change when input
shows up or not, we could easily do so
in our data view piping function from
our data to what the page displays.
So let's get going people.
We're back into it, let's just flag
where we're going, once we have,
this is called a UI component.
Funnels our data to our view the whole
way through, and we are back.
And we are hopefully going to be able
to now walk through our models of our
execution quite efficiently, so that
we can start to get to our visual DOM.
Here we go, look at that.
That's not too big a web page, is it?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Ian approves.
Then we have a model of this page that we
have the ability to interact with HTML or
JavaScript, but we're really gonna
lean into using JavaScript for it now
cuz we want to have even the elements are
in a sense, things that can be changed and
therefore require underlying data,
which does not exist within HTML.
Even the creation of a div and an input
are things that you can switch on or off,
which you can't do from HTML or
one-time display.
So now even the creation of elements
we're gonna do from JavaScript,
where we can have them depend on
changeable data on state, okay?
So there it is our C++ list of elements
that we access with JavaScript
as our primary access point now.
And then remember,
we do still load initially our HTML file.
There it is.
My provenance diagram by the way
prior to storing the file.
Now, I've always been very proud of that.
Load that into the web
browser into the HTML parser.
My goodness, hopefully we have this model.
And that's going to then add
each of those elements to
the list of elements in C++ The DOM.
Okay, and then if we hit a JavaScript
script at this point is all we're gonna
hit in our HTML parser.
And nowadays, we load our JavaScript
file switches on the JavaScript
engine with its memory, and
its accesses to things like the DOM.
The output of the DOM via the layout and
render engine is actually an image
of the page 60 times a second,
literally bitmap graphic that's
passed out to wherever it's gonna be
displayed by the graphics hardware.
The graphics hardware being
the graphics card, or
graphics processor, and
that is our schematic.
But we do need to add something to our
list of elements as our HTML nodes in.
And it's going to be,
That's gonna be what?
Phil, if you just help me out quickly
here with our first element on the DOM.
Now I think the only
thing we're loading in.
>> It's gonna be our script elements
>> Yeah, brilliant.
Let's then also now have our body
always on here as well because we're
always going to, actually, we don't
need to show our script from now on.
We know that our script's loaded in,
we know it's gonna be loaded in,
it was loaded in, but we're just gonna
focus on our body element, which is
describing the overall page and is there
in our DOM by default, and that's it.
That'll do.
Now let's get into our JavaScript.
So we have a memory.
I don't even appreciate enthusiasm, which
I repeat the exact same thing, 20 times.
Our memory, isn't that fantastic?
Let's put our call stack straight on here.
Cool stack.
There it is.
There's our event loop to determine
whether to load things from
our callback queue which becomes of
course extremely pertinent here,
because we're going to have functions
called back to run JavaScript code,
to engage with the change data or
the action.
Sorry that the user has taken.
We could even because
it's not a closed system,
mention here immediately that
our user can take actions that
will determine what executes
in our system, user action.
We don't have any user actions
happening yet, but we will.
Okay, now in JavaScript,
help me out justice.
What is our object?
Our mission critical object that
loads straight into JavaScript on its
runtime beginning.
Good to be kicked off.
What happens?
What's gonna be loaded into its memory?
>> On line one.
>> As soon as JavaScript runs,
we automatically get available to us.
>> Yeah, the Document Object
>> Brilliant,
with a bunch of useful functions.
We're gonna use a different one this time.
Can you spot which one
we're gonna use this time?
>> We got the replace child.
>> Spot where that's been.
>> Sorry, the set interval.
Line 19, Is that where we're looking?
>> No worries,
have a look at line 4 and 6.
Can you spot what method we
might be using on document?
>> The create element.
>> Create element, exactly.
That's one of ours.
We also got, as you say in line 12,
what looks like a getter setter property.
Can you spot what it is?
>> Well, so if there's nothing
on in the body it's gonna be-
>> Well, yeah, but
what's the property called?
>> Replace children.
>> That's gonna be available once we have?
Exactly.
So what's gonna be on our document object?
It's our body getter setter property.
Which is gonna know where to go because,
It's gonna know where to go because
we have a hidden link to the DOM.
The full list of elements and
any of these getter setters like body or
functions like create
element are going to first
check where they're accessing in C++.
Okay, now we're set, Justice.
In line one, we actually have three lines
of code that are separated by semicolons.
Just to save space,
there are three separate lines.
This is not me initializing multiple
variables in a clever one line way,
this is three separate lines.
What are those three that we are?
And the reason I do this, by the way,
people, is just for diagramming.
To keep things simple,
technically we'd probably encapsulate,
protect many of these pieces.
We'd probably declare them
locally in Data to View or
parse them as an input to Data to View.
The reason I do them here is so
that I don't need to deal with my
favorite concept in JavaScript, closure.
While a wonderful concept,
it's gonna be much harder to diagram.
So I just put everything in global.
In practice, we would probably,
certainly not.
But just for diagramming purposes it lets
us easily diagram basically, easy as that.
Okay, so what are those three variables
which we're declaring there, Justice?
>> We've got a post-
>> Okay.
>> Which is empty string.
>> Both is an empty string, perfect.
Next one, [INAUDIBLE]
>> A JS input.
>> Beautiful,
we're not assigning it anything yet.
I never mean to do that so
I know I did plus or equals.
Because I always think of equals as a
command what whereas what we're doing here
is we have stored.
This is the result of
the command assignment.
I never use equals in the memory, I mean,
Cola has a downside as well because
Cola looks like an object property key
value pair, but I never liked using
equals in this memory because it's
a command to go and assign something.
So I never think that should be equals but
anyway, okay.
JS input is well, on signed uninitialized
and then just did the same.
So there we go.
I'm putting them there only,
as I say, for diagrammatic purposes,
but now let's declare some functions.
Both our mega function here now
that's doing all of the creation of
anything that's gonna be seen by the user,
but conditional on data in JavaScript.
Wanna work out what the user sees?
Go look at the data and go look at the one
place that pipes it through to the view,
the dataToView converter.
And then a handler which is our other
type of function we can have in UI.
One, or at least in this structure,
one is the take the data, display it.
The other is the user takes action,
pinpoint change some data based off
that action, and do nothing else.
Okay, let's say those two functions,
Justice.
>> I have got the data to view.
>> Yep, perfect.
>> And the handle.
>> And handle input.
Okay, and now we start our process
of looping essentially running
data to view which is gonna convert
any change data here on rotation.
And we set that up by calling what,
Justice?
>> Set interval.
>> Yeah.
Which is going to do what?
>> It's gonna take
the reference of data to view.
>> Beautiful.
I don't know why I did another line there,
sorry.
And what argument, how many milliseconds?
>> 15.
>> 15, yeah, spot on.
That's going to pass that to our
timer feature on the web browser,
implemented somewhere between JavaScript
and the browser, it's C++ environment.
But what we do know is, the waiting for
that 15 milliseconds of pause in
order to execute data to view,
is not happening in JavaScript and
blocking anything in JavaScript running.
It's absolutely not happening there.
So we're setting up an interval
of 15 milliseconds in which
we're going to see our
Data To View function,
DTV, be called back at 15
milliseconds into JavaScript.
In the meantime, that finishes executing.
I like to draw a line through
to make it really clear.
That is done.